>> Bianca Gandolfo: What's a linked list?
>> Speaker 2: It's some objects that
are linked together with a reference to
the next one?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, absolutely.
So again, this is an ordered collection of
nodes, not to be confused with a sorted.
It's not necessarily sorted,
it's just ordered, it has an order.
Sequential access, which means you can
only access it in a certain sequence.
Great, usually starting from the head or
the tail, if it's double linked list.
And accessing the next one.
Cool, and nodes contain
the reference to the next node.
That is a linked list.
Cool, so here's our picture.
We have a value here.
And then, next to it, we have a pointer.
So you can imagine this is an object.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
this has a pointer to the next object.
Here's another object
pointer to the next object.
Cool, deletion's pretty quick.
We just re-direct our
.next to the .next.next.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: All right, here we go.
So we have our linked list,
we give it a value.
Note that this if statement
is not really gonna cut it
It's going to give us an error.
You probably want to
throw an error instead.
So we're going to create a new
node with the head value.
When we create a new node it's going
to have again the next and the value.
The next is set to null.
I recommend null instead of undefined.
And then the head is also the tail.
Also if we insert and
delete with the reference to the node,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It's constant time,
the slide is wrong.
If you don't have a reference to the node,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: You're
gonna need to Search for it, right?
Which at the worst case is linear time.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
Why is it linear time?
>> Speaker 2: Because you're not
gonna loop across the whole thing,
you're just gonna.
>> Speaker 2: Actually, I don't know.
Because you just changing the reference,
right?
So it's just a.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
if you have a reference
then it will be constant time, right?
Cuz your just changing the next.
Or you need a reference to the parent
if you're deleteing or inserting.
But if we don't have
a reference to the node,
what do we have to do to
find the node in question?
Yes.
So you would have to loop through
our link list.
Right, we loop through the link list for
the while loop, we can't use the for
loop in this case.
And looping through any less is
gonna be linear time, right?
Because if we double that list
it's gonna double our work.
So we have to look at each one.
In the worst case, right because there
could be the case where the one that
you're looking for is the head, right?
In which case you're looking at one.
Right, it's one operation.
However we're not thinking about that.
We're thinking about
what's the worse case.
The worse case is all the way at the end.
So we would have to loop through
the entire link list, cool.
>> Speaker 3: Question?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Sure.
>> Speaker 3: What do you mean reference
or result reference just picking up one.
element from the middle,
or just, it's not clear.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so your
question is why can't you just pick one
randomly in the middle and
have a reference?
>> Speaker 3: With a reference and
without reference just to be
the example of some kind.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, absolutely.
So an insert or
a delete with a reference means that you
know what object you're going to be
deleting, inserting after, right?
So you have, you have that reference.
Maybe it's saved in a variable somewhere.
So if you're inserting for
example after the tail, which is a very
common operation for a linked list.
Usually you're going to
have a pointer to the tail.
So you have a reference to that node.
So if you wanted to add
Something next to the tail.
You would have to say this.tail.next
equals the new value.
And that's easy, right?
Because that's just
a constant time operation.
We're good to go.
For deletion we have
to have a reference to
the parent, right, or I'm sorry.
So if we wanna delete somewhere
after maybe the head.
Like the one after the head,
you can delete the second one.
And that would be having a reference
that just comes fo free.
Otherwise you could
somehow save references
as you're building your linked list or
whatever.
You can have a reference
however you wanna have them.
Generally, it's just gonna be the head and
tail.
Otherwise, you're gonna have to search for
the element in which
you wanna insert after.
So maybe you wanna insert the number
4 only after the number 5 and you have a
linked list that's numbered 1 through 10.
You have to go 1 and then 2 and
then 3 and 4, I'm sorry.
And then 5 and then you put 4 after which
that doesn't make sense sequentially but
you get what I mean, right?
So you want to insert it after but
you'd have to look through to get there.
Because we don't,
it's not an array where you can just
do a quick look up with an index.
Where you can say like link list,
bracket 4, or something like that.
That's not how it works.
The only way you can access it is through
the dot next unless you have it saved in
a variable.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool, good question.
Awesome.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Any more questions?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: No?
How did linked lists land for you?
What was confusing at
first that Cleared up.
>> Speaker 2: But I mean, I didn't really
know what a linked list was before.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 2: Before this, so.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What is your So
just a concept of the linked list.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, for sure.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
>> Speaker 2: And then at first,
I though they would have references
to the parent as well as the child.
And I think you said that's
actually that's a double link list.
Sorry.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep.
Yeah, and
if you're interested in the solution for
the double link list there's
a solution that you can check out.
Yeah, cool.
So it can be singly linked or
doubly linked.
Cool.
We are going to have multiple links.
Length and it's called a skip list.
You can look into that to see sort
of a variation of a link list.
>> Speaker 2: I have sort
of an insight question.
So one thing, I mean, for the most part,
this was pretty straightforward.
But one thing I was confused about
is what a node actually was.
I wanted it to have a name and
an identifier and
so It seemed kind of complicated
to me like overcomplicated.
But then I was talking to
a friend about it yesterday.
And I'm interested in what
you think about this is.
But he said that the whole point is to be
sort of agnostic about what a note is.
And that's kind of the whole
point of a link list.
Would you agree with that or?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: You don't
really want to worry about
exactly what each note is.
It's just a matter of Connecting them.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
yeah, exactly, yeah.
The purpose of the linked list isn't
necessarily, you want your data in any
sort of list to be the same type,
the same format.
Ideally, right, if you're doing
things the way you're supposed to do.
But a linked, what is specifically
in your linked list can vary.
And your specific implementation
is going to change.
So the point is you should understand
where the overall concept and
then be able to fill in the blank for
your use case.
And a node can contain, as long as it
has a dot next and some sort of value.
The rest of it is kind of up to you,
right?
The value could be an object, right?
That has a bunch of different
values in it, right?
That could be a possibility, yeah.
And different variations of linked lists
have different ways that they connect to
their .next another dot next.
>> Speaker 2: The question I'm
realizing may be off topic so
you can just talk later.
But I'm wondering at one point a linked
list starts to become more of a database.
I mean, if you start adding all of
these links and references and things.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Becomes a database?
>> Speaker 2: More like a- not a database,
but you know what I mean?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Well data
structures underly databases, right?
So.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, so
it's just a simpler form of it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
yeah, yeah, cool.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I like that.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 3: The diagram that reads very
clearly, and
the diagram you show is very clear.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 3: But putting the diagram to
the code was some starting out,
to start to code was hard for me.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so
when you saw the diagram, it made sense.
But then when you started to code,
it was kinda difficult?
Okay, yeah, but
leap to code was tough, yeah.
And with data structures,
you'll find that once you did it once.
Then you're familiar with the approach and
it's easier, right?
But getting from the concept to
the actual implementation for
the first time can be It
could be hard on your brain.
It's a good practice, right?
Because you're not always gonna have some
predefined data structure that I'm gonna
tell you exactly how you should do it.
You know what I mean?
You're gonna need to be able to think
like, okay, here's my use case.
This is what I need to do.
Here's some constraints.
You know,
what's the best way of doing this?
And being able to reason
through it on your own.
But again, it is a leap and
something that comes with practice,
and that's why you're here, right?
To get that practice.
Because probably when you're
thinking about your data,
you're drawing it on a white board.
You're not coding it out first,
hopefully, you know?
That would be kind of scary.